The ideal temperature is our body temperature, so the milk should feel neither hot nor cold on our hands. 

Silicone nipple shields are unnecessary. Even flat or inverted or nipples that are usually pointed inwards but can become erect from coldness (for example) do not require silicone nipple shields.
The difficulties for your baby will be greater than learning the correct technique of latching on the areola.
NOTE: Babies breastfeed on the areola and not the nipple. 

Truly inverted nipples will pull inward (even more) when stimulated (or from coldness/ice).
This interferes with breastfeeding and requires specific advice.
Talk to a lactation consultant for help. 

The only way to know if your baby is getting enough breast milk is by the number of wet diapers during the day.
After your milk has come in (usually about 3 days after birth), your baby should have at least 6 wet diapers per day, with clear urine.
Techniques such as weighing before and after feeding should not be used or trying to pump to see how much milk you can get because besides being false indicator amounts, they don't mean anything by themselves. 
The first one is because the baby doesn't always nurse the same amount at every feeding.
The second one is because no pump is as effective as a baby directly on the breast, and besides, there is no set amount for breast milk.
Each mother, baby, and feeding are unique and when exclusively breastfeeding, production is always perfectly adapted to the baby's hunger and needs.
Breastfeeding on demand (whenever the baby wants) instead of at certain times or schedules is the best way to ensure that your baby gets all the food they need.


Babies’ weight gains, which parents are so concerned with, are usually based on averages. 
This means that healthy children gain more than the average and many other equally healthy children gain less than average without it being considered a problem.
If they keep within their percentile (not moving up or down in percentiles) and there are no other signs of concern, weight in itself shouldn't be a concern! 


International guidelines (particularly the World Health Organization), recommend exclusively breastfeeding until 6 months of age and as a supplement to solid foods for as long as the mother and baby wish. To maintain breastfeeding, just keep up the demand and stimulus. To increase production and milk supply, increase the number of times the breasts are stimulated (by the baby, manually, or with a pump) and completely empty them. To reduce milk supply, avoid completely emptying the breasts.

Taking care of a baby is an endless and exhausting job. Take care of yourself! Try to rest, at least during one of your baby's naps. Or just sit down and close your eyes. If you have problems “disconnecting” your brain, try thinking about the last time you felt completely relaxed: That last massage, that perfect afternoon at the beach or park, that sunny Sunday... Zzzz ;) Would you like more? 

If there's some crying or irritation that always happens at the same time, usually at the end of the day, it is normally a reflection of the caregiver's fatigue. You can help by ensuring that the primary caregiver rests during at least one of the baby's naps.

98% of babies will have episodes of colic between their 3rd - 4th week of life and 3 - 4 months of age. Colic is a self-limited condition, which means that even if nothing is done, it naturally disappears. Giving daily massages when your baby is calm is the best way to deal with it. 

After breastfeeding is well established (usually after 6 weeks without setbacks), it shouldn't be painful anymore. Sores and cracks are almost always due to a poor latch. Tip: It's IMPORTANT to learn as soon as possible how to identify a good latch to be able to correct or help correct it whenever your baby is not properly latched.

Inconsolable crying, a firm belly, and crying that is sometimes interrupted when their legs abruptly stretch out are just some of the signs of colic. Breastfeeding more regularly and holding your baby face down on your arm are a couple of healthy and natural options to help deal with this difficult phase. 

International guidelines (particularly the World Health Organization) recommend exclusively breastfeeding until 6 months of age and as a supplement to solid foods for as long as the mother and baby wish. 

Women have 2 breasts because they are prepared to feed 2 babies at the same time. If you have just 1 baby, 1 breast is a meal. The exception is when your milk is coming in, then always offer both (to stimulate production) and/or during growth spurts (in which case 1 might not be enough to satisfy your baby's sudden increase in appetite). (Good thing there's a reserve supply always ready to go, right?)

After breastfeeding is well established (usually after 6 weeks without setbacks), it shouldn't be painful anymore. Sores and cracks are almost always due to a poor latch. Lactation consultants are always ready to help. 
The way to know if your baby is getting enough breast milk is by the number of wet diapers during the day. After your milk has come in (usually about 3 days after birth), your baby should have at least 6 wet diapers per day, with clear urine.

Breastfeeding on demand (whenever the baby wants it), rather than at certain times or on certain schedules, is the best way to ensure that your baby gets all the food she needs. Until 6 months of age, your baby doesn't need anything else to have a balanced diet and good development.

It is ONLY THE PARENTS’ decision whether to breastfeed exclusively, breastfeed and supplement with formula, or even replace breast milk entirely. However, parents are under great pressure to stop breastfeeding, which most of the time, occurs due to lack of knowledge or availability to inform and/or support the parents’ decision. Worldwide recommendations state that all babies should be exclusively breastfed until 6 months of age, and breastfeeding should supplement solid foods for as long as the baby and mother like.
Babies are the only ones who are able to truly stimulate and completely empty the breast, but this doesn't mean that we can't do it without them.

