Funding
The South African Government offers various types of funding for small businesses:
Grants: Grants are awarded in percentages. A 100% grant means no repayment, whereas a lower percentage grant requires the remaining balance to be repaid by the grant recipient.
Incentives: To encourage economic growth, incentives such as tax advantages can be made use of after profit has been generated. This includes tax incentives, for example.
Equity funding: The government acts as an investor and provides funding in return for a shareholding percentage in your business.
Instead of approaching one large entity such as a bank or a single investor, crowdfunding involves trying to raise small amounts of money from a large number of people. 
Crowdfunding can be very successful, especially if entrepreneurs share their business plans, pitches and progress via social media to spread awareness. All major banks in South Africa offer business loans. Business bank loans involve a lot of administration and paperwork, and you have to meet a long list of minimum criteria to qualify. However, they provide a more affordable form of business funding than alternative lenders. As a bonus, some banks will help you set up and register a company. 


General Advice/Coaching Tips
Try to create a culture of excellent service within your business. Make sure everyone in your team communicates clearly and frequently with clients. 
Teach them to take responsibility when something goes wrong, even if it’s not strictly their fault. In this respect, be a role model yourself. Also put yourself in your customers’ shoes and assess your business’s service delivery process. Which aspects of the process could let customers down, make them wait unnecessarily or cause dissatisfaction for other reasons? These are issues to address as a matter of priority. It’s frustrating for customers if they can’t easily find the information they need, about your business and service or product. Wherever possible, make sure that the following information is easily accessible:
contact detailsFunding
The South African Government offers various types of funding for small businesses:
Grants: Grants are awarded in percentages. A 100% grant means no repayment, whereas a lower percentage grant requires the remaining balance to be repaid by the grant recipient.
Incentives: To encourage economic growth, incentives such as tax advantages can be made use of after profit has been generated. This includes tax incentives, for example.
Equity funding: The government acts as an investor and provides funding in return for a shareholding percentage in your business.
Instead of approaching one large entity such as a bank or a single investor, crowdfunding involves trying to raise small amounts of money from a large number of people. Crowdfunding can be very successful, especially if entrepreneurs share their business plans, pitches and progress via social media to spread awareness. 
All major banks in South Africa offer business loans. Business bank loans involve a lot of administration and paperwork, and you have to meet a long list of minimum criteria to qualify. However, they provide a more affordable form of business funding than alternative lenders. As a bonus, some banks will help you set up and register a company. 

General Advice/Coaching Tips
Try to create a culture of excellent service within your business. 
Make sure everyone in your team communicates clearly and frequently with clients. 
Teach them to take responsibility when something goes wrong, even if it’s not strictly their fault. 
In this respect, be a role model yourself. Also put yourself in your customers’ shoes and assess your business’s service delivery process. 
Which aspects of the process could let customers down, make them wait unnecessarily or cause dissatisfaction for other reasons? 
These are issues to address as a matter of priority. It’s frustrating for customers if they can’t easily find the information they need, about your business and service or product. 
Wherever possible, make sure that the following information is easily accessible: contact details, location and directions, prices,
opening times, product catalogue or services on offer.
If you want your small business to flourish, it’s essential you understand the information reported in its financial statements. This ensures you know your business’s financial position and can make sound, well-informed business decisions. Financial statements are also the tools investors, banks and other lenders use to assess risk. They’re usually key in determining whether your small business qualifies for funding or a loan, and at what rate of interest.















